Introduction:
This project contains an obstacle avoiding vehicle which can detect it
path by itself by using ultrasonic sensor. Move by a Duel Shaft Motor
150 Rpm.
Device that is used in this project-
* Software and hardware requirement
In this project we need a software like arduino programming platform.
Hardware requirements:
* 4 wheel(motor)
* arduino uno
* ultra sonic sensor
* servo motor
* motor driver
* jumper wire
* 12 v or more battery
* Arduino
Arduino is an open-source electronics platform based on easy-to-use
hardware and software. Arduino boards are able to read inputs - light on
a sensor, a finger on a button, or a Twitter message - and turn it into an
output - activating a motor, turning on an LED, publishing something
online. You can tell your board what to do by sending a set of
instructions to the microcontroller on the board. To do so you use the 
Arduino programming language (based on Wiring), and the Arduino
Software (IDE), based on Processing. In this project all code is
performed on Arduino Uno.
* Ultrasonic Sensor
An ultrasonic sensor is an instrument that measures the distance to an
object using ultrasonic sound waves.
An ultrasonic sensor uses a transducer to send and receive ultrasonic
pulses that relay back information about an object’s proximity.
High-frequency sound waves reflect from boundaries to produce distinct
echo patterns.
In this project we use ultrasonic sensor to detect it path it distance. We
the help of the ultrasonic sensor we can detect the object infront of the
vehicle. With this we measure the distance of the object.
* Servo Motor
A servo motor is an electrical device which can push or rotate an object
with great precision. If you want to rotate and object at some specific
angles or distance, then you use servo motor. It is just made up of simple
motor which run through servo mechanism.
In this Project we use it to Provide a base to ultra sonic sensor and also a
wide angle to it.
There are some special types of applications of an electric motor where
the rotation of the motor is required for just a certain angle. For these
applications, we require some special types of motor with some special
arrangement which makes the motor rotate a certain angle for a given
electrical input (signal). For this purpose, servo motor comes into the
picture.
The servo motor is usually a simple DC motor controlled for specific
angular rotation with the help of additional servomechanism. Nowadays,
servo systems are used widely in industrial applications.
Servo motor applications are also commonly seen in remote-controlled
toy cars for controlling the direction of motion, and it is also very widely
used as the motor which moves the tray of a CD or DVD player. Besides
these, there are hundreds of servo motor applications we see in our daily
life.
The main reason behind using a servo is that it provides angular
precision, i.e. it will only rotate as much we want and then stop and wait
for the next signal to take further action. The servo motor is unlike a
standard electric motor which starts turning as when we apply power to
it, and the rotation continues until we switch off the power. We cannot
control the rotational progress of electrical motor, but we can only
control the speed of rotation and can turn it ON and OFF. Small servo
motors are included many beginner Arduino starter kits, as they are easy
to operate as part of a small electronics projects.
Want More Electrical
Wheel
This motor has operating voltage of 3v to 12v dc with a revolution of
150rpm. In this project we have use 4 motors.
* Motor driver
Motor drives are circuits used to run a motor. In other words, they are
commonly used for motor interfacing. These drive circuits can be easily
interfaced with the motor and their selection depends upon the type of
motor being used and their ratings (current, voltage).
* Feasibility study: This car is very feasible to use. It can earn a lot of 
timings. Which means it is very time saving. It is low in cost. It is very
useful for everyone. It will not harm the environment. Even if can be
used for detecting the particular object.
InnovationIn this project we have developed a self-driven vehicle which can detect
it path by itself basically like a rover. This project was developed to
decrease the percentage of accident. Here we can avoid the accident
easily. Even if we can detect the safest path for the vehicle. It will also
help in save the timings. It is very low in cost.
